[CLICK]
SURMA: Just so we
have that on camera,
there's no product placement.
JAKE: Before I film, I always
take a refreshing drink
of [BLEEP] [BLEEP].
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Who are you and why?
Starting with [? five ?] review.
SURMA: You're pick.
PAUL IRISH: OK.
JASON MILLER: Who is Paul?
PAUL IRISH: I'm Paul Irish.
I work on performance
stuff DevTools Lighthouse.
And I do it because
I love the web.
I like it to be fast.
JAKE: And now you.
JASON MILLER: I'm Jason Miller,
and I work on speed and loading
stuff.
And I do it because I
had a slow phone once
and it was a pretty
poor experience.
SURMA: Ah, hashtag #relatable.
JASON MILLER: Yeah,
very relatable.
I still live in North America,
so I have it pretty good.
But a slow phone will let
you know what's going on.
JAKE: So you did
your talk today.
SURMA: You had the glorious
8:30 spot in the morning.
JAKE: 8:30 in the morning.
You were speaking to an
audience of about one or two?
PAUL IRISH: Yes.
JASON MILLER: Captive audience.
JAKE: Excellent.
That was the two of you?
SURMA: But those
people really cared.
That's the upside.
JASON MILLER: That's why they
put the mirror up at the back.
JAKE: We missed your talk
because we were filming.
We weren't filming.
SURMA: No, we were sleeping.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JASON MILLER: You were
doing film while you slept.
JAKE: So we don't have
to watch the video,
can you just give us the
30 second version of it?
PAUL IRISH: You can change any
website you want with DevTools
and then reload, and those
changes are still there.
SURMA: I love that feature.
I used it this morning.
JAKE: So what could I change?
PAUL IRISH: Change the
CSS, change the HTML,
change the JavaScript.
JASON MILLER: Anything that
comes down over the network.
PAUL IRISH: Yeah.
JAKE: Anything that
comes down over the work?
JASON MILLER: Yeah,
literally anything.
PAUL IRISH: Anything
that you usually
change in DevTools plus more.
JAKE: What if it's
changed on disk as well?
What if the thing that served
on the network has changed
and you've made changes?
How does that figure that out?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
Oh!
It takes yours.
PAUL IRISH: Even
if service work is
involved or anything like that.
JAKE: So you break it you pay?
It's yours now?
PAUL IRISH: Yeah.
SURMA: It's a DevTools feature.
You know what you're
doing supposedly.
JAKE: Well, I don't know.
It could have done some
clever diffing and then
conflict resolve.
PAUL IRISH: No, you
own the entire file.
JAKE: And then you can unown it?
PAUL IRISH: Yeah, you just
delete that overwriting file.
It's actually a file on
disk, which is also cool--
SURMA: So the changes you
made, you can actually--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
PAUL IRISH: In disk,
you can open an editor
and then just play around there.
And then just refresh.
And now--
SURMA: So I don't have
to edit in DevTools.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SURMA: --into my actual--
That's nice.
JASON MILLER: A cool
feature we didn't
show-- if you have an image,
you can drag an image on top
of the image in the Network
tab, and it will overwrite it
locally.
JAKE: What does this look like?
How does this act if my
banner image is going to fail
or something?
Do you just drag
this empty image?
PAUL IRISH: That's a lot.
It's nice, because
a lot of things
doing the actual change
on the back end for real
takes a bit of work.
Yeah, you can mock out an air--
mock out anything,
any potential case.
And the other nice thing is
we also showed in performance
scenarios, say, for instance you
wanted to see what would happen
if I add link rel pre-load
for whatever assets,
you can just try that
out just in the HTML,
and not change all
the things that need--
SURMA: That's
something that I have
waited for a long time
in a way, because we
had a similar feature
that covers [INAUDIBLE]
[? work spaces. ?] And it
was a lot more complicated.
But it's so useful, especially
here, when people walk up
and they're can you help
me with this problem?
You don't want to fiddle
around with their dev server
or whatever.
You just go [POP].
JASON MILLER: Cool
little thing too, there's
now a changes drawer
you can pull up.
Changes drawer shows
you a diff of everything
you've done locally,
compared to the server copy.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
PAUL IRISH: We get a
unified diff of every change
to every file that you made.
JASON MILLER: The only
thing it doesn't have is ML.
JAKE: Machine learning.
JASON MILLER: Yes.
SURMA: Not yet.
Probably will be at some point.
It just writes the page for you.
JAKE: So is that it?
Is that DevTools now?
It's that one new feature.
And you're just calling
in for another year?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JASON MILLER: Paul
goes into hibernation.
I go out and [INAUDIBLE].
JAKE: Jason showed some
async debugging stuff?
JASON MILLER: Yeah.
You can now step
into async functions.
So you step into a set time out.
And you'll get dropped
off inside of the callback
you pass to the set time out.
SURMA: I tested it in Canary
and it works with Pulse Message.
And it makes me so happy.
JASON MILLER: Yes.
Step across thread
boundaries in Pulse Message.
You can step into the
Worker Constructor.
It will drop you off in
the first line of Worker.
SURMA: What is a
Worker Constructor?
JAKE: New worker.
SURMA: Sorry.
JASON MILLER: Where you from?
SURMA: Where you from?
JAKE: Surma's getting tired.
Can we have a nap?
We'll continue this in an hour.
JASON MILLER: It's sun stroke.
SURMA: Expecting a
class, but it's not.
PAUL IRISH: Anything that's
thenable, just step into that.
It'll step into the then.
JAKE: Even if it's not
an official V8 promise,
if it's thenable, we can--
SURMA: Something
I haven't tried,
but I was meaning to ask, I can
have multiple message listeners
on the worker side?
PAUL IRISH: Yes, but untested.
JASON MILLER: There's
too much stepping
through all the listeners.
SURMA: People that do that just
don't deserve a good debugging
experience.
JAKE: What?
Adding multiple listeners?
SURMA: Multiple message
listeners in a worker.
That's just--
JAKE: It's a legitimate thing.
SURMA: Why?
JAKE: OK.
You've written a library that
does message handling stuff.
You've been adding
your listeners.
But then I might have my own
stuff I want to listen to.
And a lower thing.
SURMA: And then you
have two listeners.
You have to distinguish if
this message-- nah, nah.
JAKE: Is your library
not support that?
Just talk amongst yourselves.
I'm just going to be filing
an issue on Com Link.
So what's next with it?
Is there anything else before
I start asking what's next?
JASON MILLER: We can go deeper.
PAUL IRISH: Yeah.
We showed a new feature
called Eager Evaluation.
SURMA: Oh, I've seen this.
I was wondering what it means.
PAUL IRISH: Yeah.
So you're in the console.
And you type out
something in the console.
But before you hit Enter,
you get the result.
JAKE: That sounds obnoxious.
JASON MILLER: I call
it belligerent console.
SURMA: That's like
prefetching in Chrome.
You just type [INAUDIBLE].
It's already fetching.
And you're like, stop it!
PAUL IRISH: So it's
a bit like proactive
of the console where you're
like, I know you're not done,
but here you go.
SURMA: Doesn't it do it with
functions or mostly properties?
PAUL IRISH: Great question.
Everything that it can.
So definitely
including functions.
SURMA: What about side effects?
PAUL IRISH: Exactly.
The V8 has worked to
introduce a new mode where
we can guarantee there are no
side effects for whatever this
is.
So if we see that a side
effect is about to be caused,
we just bail
evaluation [INAUDIBLE]..
SURMA: Isn't that
Meltdown and Spectre?
JAKE: What?
SURMA: They assume
they're going down a path,
and they have to roll back.
JAKE: Oh, Meltdown and Spectre.
I thought you said that
melts the inspector.
I was just imagining all the
pixels going down the screen.
SURMA: And now we're back
to our surreal approach
to this episode.
JAKE: We've got this bug again.
Salvador Dali mode.
The clock's melting again.
We shouldn't have had
Eager Evaluation there.
Shipped it too early.
SURMA: That sounds good.
I'm guessing it
[INAUDIBLE] if you
like Eager Evaluate fetches.
JASON MILLER: So you can't
Eager Evaluate fetch,
because it's a side effect.
But--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
PAUL IRISH: It has side effects.
SURMA: So it's like
don't do that, then.
JASON MILLER: So no, but
you can do something.
So in our demo, we showed you
could JSON parse a string.
And it will run the JSON
parse because there's
no side effect there.
And then you can look at the
drop down menu for suggestions,
and it will include properties
from the JSON you parsed.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JASON MILLER: It
has never been run.
JAKE: What if I change
the array constructor,
and then pass some JSON--
SURMA: Then you
are a bad person.
JASON MILLER: No, it depends.
If you change the
array constructor
to an implementation that
doesn't have side effects,
[CLICK] you're good.
JAKE: It will detect that?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JASON MILLER: It goes
all the way down.
And I know because I tried
to break this for two hours.
JAKE: So how is a side
effect defined here?
I guess it's if
the method is just
effecting anything outside
of its closure, I guess?
PAUL IRISH: Anything
outside of this.
You can have functions.
There's a lot that can
happen inside of this.
But for instance, we demoed
with regular expressions
the exec method.
SURMA: Which is side effecty,
technically speaking.
JASON MILLER: [INAUDIBLE]
on the regular expressions.
SURMA: Exactly.
PAUL IRISH: Yes,
on the expression.
But then regular
expressions match and test,
those effect the global
RegEx constructor.
Turns out, changes--
JASON MILLER: Well known fact.
I learned this last night.
RegEx constructor
dot dollar sign
underscore is the previous
match from string dot match.
There's also dollar sign 1
through 9 and last match.
SURMA: That is disgusting.
JASON MILLER: Never use these.
PAUL IRISH: So because those
exist, they are side effects.
And so match and test
can't be used under this--
JASON MILLER: Stay tuned
for a upcoming campaign
to discontinue those properties.
SURMA: Is there a
little check box
where I can enable and disable.
I'm just wondering if
I have a for loop that
does 10 million iterations,
and it takes 20 seconds
to evaluate, I might want
to disable it on every key.
PAUL IRISH: Sure.
Right now it is opt in.
So that we handle
some of these cases.
We do handle the case of
you have an infinite loop
like we know.
And so we won't
hang your browser.
SURMA: It's like
rubbing it in face of--
PAUL IRISH: There may
be some other things.
So as we refine those,
it will be opt in.
But I expect at
some point, I hope,
that we will be able to
just turn it off everybody.
JASON MILLER: I played
with this for hours,
and I never managed to break it.
And that was really trying.
SURMA: How do I opt in?
PAUL IRISH: So grab Chrome
Canary, open up Console.
There's a little settings cog to
add the console settings where
you can turn on timestamps.
It's right in there.
And it says Eager Evaluation.
JAKE: Going to have
to play with that.
Brilliant.
So what's next then?
What's DevTools going to
do now next 12 months?
PAUL IRISH: Right as
we finish the talk,
we did get a
screenshot sent over
from some of the engineers
in the DevTools team
showing us something
that they just
landed today, and neglected
to tell us about yesterday.
And--
JASON MILLER: For
the first time--
SURMA: Turns out his IO.
JAKE: Do you want to explain it?
JASON MILLER: So when we were
looking at the Eager Eval,
I was thinking it would
avoid a lot of me pulling up
MDN if you could show the
parameters that Dom methods
and stuff like that accepts.
They're there in Chrome.
We have the web IDL.
JAKE: Right.
And even if we didn't,
there's TypeScript
has documented
this stuff as well.
JASON MILLER: This works.
JAKE: Oh!
Brilliant.
OK.
So just the names
of the parameters.
What about things that
take different [INAUDIBLE]
overloaded?
Who knows?
SURMA: It landed today!
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JASON MILLER: Let
me go ask the guy!
SURMA: Cut these
people some slack.
JAKE: Sorry.
I'm only asking questions
because I'm excited.
That's a exercise
for the listener.
Brilliant.
SURMA: Some people look
into more visual debugging
for layouting stuff.
Is that's something
we're looking into?
PAUL IRISH: I think there's
some good potential there.
Between working with the
Flexbox, working with Grid,
I know that I always
have to let go.
Look up degradation
or find a tool
where I can just
prototype things out.
JASON MILLER: We have
some CSS variable stuff
to date for that.
You can see colored
previews for your variables,
that kind of stuff.
What kind of nose is able to
pierce through find elements
specific variable values.
PAUL IRISH: That stuff is there.
I think some of
the layouty things
are a little bit more
tricky to find out a design
that both handles
the case of I'm
creating something brand new,
and I have an existing layout.
I want to tweak it.
I want to work with it.
SURMA: I'm not saying it's easy.
JAKE: Because we've
got this problem
that with Flexbox
and Grid as well,
that the default
layout in a lot of them
is stretch, which leads to
this kind of multi-pass layout
thing.
You layout the first box, go
to the second box, it's bigger.
So it needs to go back to the
first box, change size of that,
and so on and so on.
And there's no way of
knowing that's happening.
JASON MILLER: We've been
talking about adding warnings
for some of these things.
Your layout may be slow.
A little information about it.
Just letting you know.
JAKE: OK.
That's a good first step.
JASON MILLER: Possibly
expensive layout [INAUDIBLE]..
SURMA: Leave room for
improvement as well.
JAKE: That's probably good.
JASON MILLER: Or we could have
announcements at each event.
JAKE: I was just
wondering if you'd
been sent a screen shot of
anything that solves that
as well.
JASON MILLER: No
screen shots so far.
I could doctor one for you.
JAKE: Go and check your
email now, just in case.
Seems like this stuff
is landing really fast.
JASON MILLER: Well, every
time we think of a feature,
one of the guys on
the DevTools team
sends us a screenshot
saying I already did this.
SURMA: Well, I have ideas.
Maybe I should do that as well.
Well, have ideas and then
magically they appear.
That seems like a
fun job to have.
JAKE: That doesn't happen to me.
My books get rejected
for DevTools.
I've [INAUDIBLE] I wanted
disable all non website fonts.
Can we make that happen?
Because I forget that I have
all the fonts installed.
And what was the other one?
Li-fi!
I want li-fi in network mode.
JASON MILLER: That
would be nice.
SURMA: What is
missing for li-fi?
JAKE: They didn't like the name.
SURMA: Oh, this is name.
Put your banding in there.
We'll just have
your face in there.
PAUL IRISH: Make li-fi
into a real, real thing.
Get it in the dictionary.
JAKE: Well, I was hoping to get
in the dictionary through this.
This is the [INAUDIBLE] way--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SURMA: Do you have li-fi as
your own preset in DevTools?
JAKE: Yes, I do.
SURMA: Of course you do.
JAKE: Yeah.
SURMA: Shared, as
like a little gist.
JAKE: OK.
OK.